Staking miner deposit and reward section (#3954)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-staking-miner.md

Running the staking miner requires passing the seed of a funded account in order to pay the fees for
the transactions that will be sent. The same account's balance is used to reserve deposits as well.
The best solution in each round is rewarded. All correct solutions will get their deposit back and
the ones that submit invalid solutions will lose their deposit.

## NPoS election optimization

> ![NPoS election optimization](../assets/staking-miner/NPoS-election-optimization.png)

Reviewer: #3853 another different style, it does look good though to be fair :D

solution and submits it to the chain. The default miner algorithm is sequential Phragmén with a
configurable number of balancing iterations that improve the score.

## Deposit and reward mechanics

> The staking miners are required to pay a deposit in order to post their solutions. The deposit is a
> sum of the `SignedDepositBase`, which is a fixed amount and `SignedDepositByte`, a variable amount
> per KB of solution data. All good solutions are subject to recieving a `SignedRewardBase`.

Reviewer 2: fixed typo of 'receiving' and a bit of rephrasing. Also, the deposit collected seems to include a per-weight deposit as well https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/49734dd1d72a00b9d3b87ba397661a63e0e17af3/frame/election-provider-multi-phase/src/signed.rs#L501

```suggestion
The staking miners are required to pay a deposit to post their solutions. This deposit is a
sum of the fixed `SignedDepositBase` amount and the variable`SignedDepositByte` amount, which depends on the size of the solution data. All good solutions are subject to receiving a `SignedRewardBase`.
```

> per KB of solution data. All good solutions are subject to recieving a `SignedRewardBase`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
per KB of solution data. 
```

Last sentence is wrong. Only the winner gets this reward.

> Current deposit(**SignedDepositBase**) is
> {{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositBase" defaultValue={16} filter="humanReadable"/> :polkadot }}
> {{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositBase" defaultValue={16} filter="humanReadable"/> :kusama }}
> 
> Current deposit per byte(**SignedDepositByte**) is
> {{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositByte" defaultValue={16} filter="humanReadable"/> :polkadot }}
> {{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositByte" defaultValue={16} filter="humanReadable"/> :kusama }}
> 
> Current rewards(**SignedRewardBase**) is
> {{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedRewardBase" defaultValue={16} filter="humanReadable"/> :polkadot }}
> {{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedRewardBase" defaultValue={16} filter="humanReadable"/> :kusama }}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Current deposit(**SignedDepositBase**) is
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositBase" defaultValue={400000000000} filter="humanReadable"/> :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositBase" defaultValue={133333332000} filter="humanReadable"/> :kusama }}

Current deposit per byte(**SignedDepositByte**) is
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositByte" defaultValue={97656} filter="humanReadable"/> :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositByte" defaultValue={32551} filter="humanReadable"/> :kusama }}

Current rewards(**SignedRewardBase**) is
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedRewardBase" defaultValue={10000000000} filter="humanReadable"/> :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedRewardBase" defaultValue={100000000000} filter="humanReadable"/> :kusama }}
```

The RPC formatting you used here is perfect and won't be modified by prettier in any negative way!  Modifications are required for the default values to display properly before the on-chain values kick-in.  In the current state the page will initially loading with 0 for all these values until the RPC values are retrieved.  The proper defaults should be the raw values (without commas) you would get when calling those endpoint paths say via PolkadotJS, prior to applying the filter. The `humanReadable` filter will take that raw value of say `400000000000` Plancks and convert it to `40 DOT` prior to rendering.  So for example:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13341935/196601589-5556ba3c-cdcf-4889-a9a7-808a0b2c447e.png)

Let me know if you have any further questions on this!

Reviewer 2: With the current precision of the rendered DOT values, the deposit byte value will be shown as 0.000 DOT. Not sure if we have to increase the precision which effects the whole WIki or make an exception just for this one case!

Reviewer 3: Good point!

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13341935/196661293-757571bc-8855-42ab-a271-7aa5e3ede0b1.png)

It would impact every RPC component that uses the `humanReadable` filter.  If we want something more precise for rare instances like this, I would suggest adding a new filter.  Maybe something like `humanReadablePrecise` which returns an appropriate value with the increased decimal precision.  It can be added in [filters.js](https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-wiki/blob/master/components/utilities/filters.js).

@emresurmeli Let me know if you go this route and need any assistance.

Reviewer: Would be good if you also show an example: a solution that is 200KB of data to post onchain, costs xxx. 

You can look at subscan and old block to find the size of a typical transaction.

Author: I'm going to create another issue for adding this feature, meanwhile, for the `signedDepositByte` value I will put the right output into the default answer and leave a TODO above the code block.

Once the staking miner with a good solution is ready to be rewarded,

> [`finalize_signed_phase_accept_solution`](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/election-provider-multi-phase/src/signed.rs#L453-L474)

Reviewer: These links will be useless in no time, please use a permalink!

> [`finalize_signed_phase_accept_solution`](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/election-provider-multi-phase/src/signed.rs#L453-L474)

Reviewer: This gives the false impression that some account calls `finalize_signed_phase_accept_solution` which is far from true. I think it is good that you are trying to back statements with code, but it need to be accurate. 

Here's a lead to follow: the miner works in the `SignedPhase`, and at the end of signed phase, the runtime automatically calls `finalize_signed_phase`. 

also, this is a good lead: https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/3bbdba405d42d7023eeb297efb03a3ec4ccf9563/frame/election-provider-multi-phase/src/lib.rs#L69-L74

Author: Yeah, this is all mentioned below in the signed phase section. Actually makes more sense to move the deposit and reward mechanics below that and it will flow better.

> Once the staking miner with a good solution is ready to be rewarded,
> [`finalize_signed_phase_accept_solution`](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/election-provider-multi-phase/src/signed.rs#L453-L474)
> will be called, which will submit the solution to the queue of solutions, reward the staking miner
> and refund the deposit.

Reviewer 2: Just a question that might come up from the readers -

It is unclear why the good solution is submitted to the queue of solutions here. What does this queue contain? Why can't the best solution that is being rewarded be directly accepted?

```suggestion
Once the staking miner with a good solution is ready to be rewarded,
[`finalize_signed_phase_accept_solution`](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/election-provider-multi-phase/src/signed.rs#L453-L474)
will be called, which will submit the solution to the queue of solutions, reward the staking miner
and refund the deposit.
```

Author: Yeah, good point. It's well explained at the bottom of the page, I'll link.

+-------------------------------+
```

## Deposit and reward mechanics

The staking miners are required to pay a deposit to post their solutions. Deposit amount is the sum
of `SignedDepositBase` +`SignedDepositByte` + `SignedDepositWeight`. All good solutions are subject
to receiving a `SignedRewardBase`.

### Deposit

Current deposit(`SignedDepositBase`) is
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositBase" defaultValue={400000000000} filter="humanReadable"/> :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.electionProviderMultiPhase.signedDepositBase" defaultValue={133333332000} filter="humanReadable"/> :kusama }}
which is a fixed amount.

Current deposit per byte(`SignedDepositByte`) is
{{ polkadot: 0.0000097656 DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: 0.00000032551 KSM :kusama }} and the total is
variable depending on the size of the solution data. For example a solution weighing 200KB would
yield {{ polkadot: 200 x 0.0000097656 = **0.00195312 DOT**. :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: 200 x 0.00000032551 = **0.000065102 KSM**. :kusama }}

And the weight deposit(`SignedDepositWeight`) is calculated by the runtime once a winning solution

> has been elected.

Reviewer 2: The entire deposit amount is calculated and collected to store this solution at the time of deposit. So, calculating the deposit value after the solution is elected does not seem right.

https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/f2bc08a3071a91b71fec63cf2b22c707411cec0e/frame/election-provider-multi-phase/src/signed.rs#L512

```suggestion
And the weight deposit(`SignedDepositWeight`) is currently set to `0` and has no effect.
```

Reviewer 2: @kianenigma Could you please confirm if this is the case and the role of `SignedDepositWeight` in general?

<img width="740" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86818441/198020562-2fe32cf3-410c-45ab-beca-7107998ac14b.png">

- [Election Pallet definition](https://crates.parity.io/pallet_election_provider_multi_phase/index.html)
- [Staking Miner repository](https://github.com/paritytech/staking-miner-v2)

> - [Signed phase parameter configuration on Polkadot](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/blob/master/runtime/polkadot/src/lib.rs#L389:L397)

Reviewer: Permalink please.
